---
layout: misc
title: About Us
---

Hello, and welcome to Ecosherwood! Initiated in early 2017 as an exclsuive subset of the larger environmental group at Sherwood High School in Sandy Spring, MD, our group of nine environmentally-minded, curious, and driven young women joined together under our advisor, Laura Dinerman, in order to analyze a portion of the Northwest Branch of the Anacostia River, a modest stream in our local community that, peculiarly, none of our members had ever seen before. The infamously polluted Anacostia River flows into the Potomac River, reaching the Chesapeake Bay and ultimately depositing into the Atlantic Ocean. Naturally, these pollutants cause major concern, as these waterways possess a tremendous impact on one another: the sickness of one will likely create symptoms in another. Once we arrived to our study site after our first hike to the Northwest branch (approximately one mile from our high school), we realized there was much to observe from a scientific standpoint, and this tucked away stream quickly and evidently generated multiple questions regarding the health of the branch, such as how the lack of biodiversity noted in this location occurred, and what external land usage caused this saddening reality. This question became the focus of our previous Smithsonian Ecological Research Center symposium presentation, as we spent the next several months making frequent trips to our study site, collecting data on various organisms discovered at sites in our study area, asking questions that only led to more, and wondrously immersing ourselves in the field of environmental studies. Our education expanded outside of the classroom, as we had the privilege of performing research to explain unanswered questions, with an air of curiosity and eagerness unseen when testing hypotheses that have already been proven. By the time our symposium date arrived in June of 2017, we had become confident enough to share our findings with an audience as we spent that afternoon in D.C. discussing our research pertaining to land use and notable impacts, and presented on our future plans to implement newer technologies in our research. In addition, we traveled to fox island just several weeks after, neighboring nearby Tangier and Smith islands. This blog will follow our journey subsequent to these events, our findings, and our implementation of newer advancements to analyze a rather forgotten stream in our small town. However, one small stream can set off a chain reaction in the grand scheme of our watershed, and we certainly do not intend on letting that impact be a negative one. We sincerely hope that you stick around to enjoy and witness our thoughts and research develop from the next generation of scientists and curious-thinkers, in a world where environmental science grows undeniably more urgent every single day. 
